# 6.170 Project 2

TeamNote, a persistent collaborative note-taking application.

+ Full Name: Stephen Suen
+ Github Tree URL: https://github.com/6170-fa13/ssuen_proj2/tree/1b700c785d07746dca28f893a91e893f524c9dff
+ Heroku URL: http://ssuen-teamnote.herokuapp.com/

## Setup

To run this app on your local machine:
+ `git clone` - download this repository
+ `bundle install` - install relevant rubygems
+ `rake db:migrate` - set up database
+ `rails s` - start server (defaults to http://0.0.0.0:3000)
+ (optional) in `rails c` run `Note.generate` to quickly populate the database with entries

To run this app in the browser, simply visit the [Heroku-hosted instance](http://ssuen-teamnote.herokuapp.com), where some notes have already been created.

## Documentation

### Note

The primary ActiveRecord resource for this web app. Has two user-accessible fields, `title` and `content`. For the most part, this resource is unchanged from the auto-generated Rails scaffolding. Handles basic RESTful methods: `create`, `edit`, `destroy`, `show`. What follows is a discussion of modifications to the scaffold defaults.

#### Model

##### Fields

+ `title` - A string representing the name of the note.
+ `content` - A text object containing the body of the note. For the next phase of the project, I plan to abstract this field out into a separate Revision model (joined via a `has_many` relationship) that will allow for version control and some level of concurrency in editing.
+ `slug` - A string object generated by the `friendly_id` rubygem from `title`, used as a human-friendly alternative to `id`. At the moment, this is not updated when the note is renamed and a note that shares a name with an existing note is assigned <slug>--<UUID> as its slug. These issues stem from design choices made by the gem maintainer and will be addressed in the next iteration of TeamNote.

##### Methods
+ `generate(n)` - Populates the database with placeholder content (`n` entries) created using the `lorem-ipsum-me` gem

#### Controller

##### `create`, `edit`, `destroy`

The form partial has been modified to make use of the `simple_form` gem, which allows for integration with Twitter Bootstrap.

##### `index`

Shows a list of all notes and allows for sorting on title, note length, and last updated datetime via the Table data type in `notes.js.coffee`. Given the css selector for a valid table, this snippet allows for ascending/descending sort on any of its columns. Pagination (and folders) will be implemented in a future iteration.

#### Views

Styling done using Twitter Bootstrap, SASS, and colors chosen from the [Flat UI palette](http://flatuicolors.com/). Significant visual inspiration derived from [Medium](http://medium.com).

### Design

Features that have been implemented or will be over the course of the next two phases: users and permissions (most likely via the `devise` gem), version control and forking/duplicating, folders and collections, and export features (as a text file, or to a gist). TeamNote already uses Bootstrap, so a responsive implementation may also follow.
